Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane and David Carson. Ray Bradbury has tried just about every
form of writing an author can undertake. Short stories, novels, poetry, plays,
even an opera. And he's also written numerous television and movie scripts. He
used to write shows back in the 60s for Twilight Zone and Alfred Hitchcock. I
did three one-hour shows for Hitchcock for his big one-hour series. And then I
did eight or nine scripts, maybe ten or twelve, for the half-hour series. And
all but one of those were my own stories. We asked Bradbury if he still does
television scripts, particularly the kind that are written on cue with the
deadline. Well, I tried never to do that anyway. I had a very friendly
relationship with Alfred Hitchcock and all of his partners there, Joan Harrison
and Norman Lloyd. I'd go out and have a casual lunch, tell them an idea. They'd
okay it. I'd go home and write it and come back with a finished script. And we'd
have another lunch. And if they could argue me into any changes, I'd make them.
And if I could argue them into the logic of my situation, it stayed the way it
was. So it was a very amiable, very friendly thing. I never did a lot of
scripts. I wouldn't let myself get bullied into being a full-time writer because
no one remembers who writes scripts for television anyway. Bradbury still writes
for television occasionally. Last year he had two shows that were successful,
The Electric Grandmother and Any Friend of Nicholas Nickleby is a Friend of
Mine. That last work is based on a play Bradbury had written. We asked him how
many of his plays have been produced. Oh, I would say somewhere around 14 or 15
of them. Most of them I've produced myself. Dandelion Wine here on the coast
recently, back east a few years ago. The Martian Chronicles, which I produced
here at a small theater. Fahrenheit 451, two years ago, which turned out very
well. The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit, then six or seven of my one-act plays. I've
had The Anthem Sprinters, which is all of my Irish experiences. So I've had a
lot of fun with it, and I've made a lot of friends among actors. I've worked
with a lot of good people, including James Whitmore, who appeared in my first
one-act play here. And it'll benefit for the United Nations about 23 years ago.
It's obvious from all of Bradbury's fiction that he is a lover of books.
Fahrenheit 451 is a good example of that. We wondered, then, how he could devote
so much energy to the visual arts like television or the movies. I grew up with
all these loves. If I have any capacity at all, it's to be in love in six or
seven different ways. So I've always been madly in love with motion pictures. My
mother was a fiend for them and took me to see hundreds of films from the age of
when I was two up until I was 10, 11, or 12. So that never left me. And I think
I'm very fortunate to have a great love of films, a great love of libraries and
books, a great love of radio and the famous people in radio. When I came west to
live in Los Angeles, I headed downtown immediately and got to know all the
people on an old radio broadcast called Hollywood Hotel. And Louella Parsons
became a friend to this 13-, 14-year-old boy. And I knew Burns and Allen during
those years of 1934, 35, 36. I wrote scripts for them every week and handed them
in. Of course, I doubt if they even read them, but they pretended that they did.
And they were very kind to me. And then I was in love with Orson Welles when he
came on the scene in radio and suspense. And Norman Corwin, who became my friend
when I was 27 years old. So I grew up then with a love of libraries, a love of
radio, a love of films. And I think I'm very lucky that I've been able to work
in all of these different mediums and do rather well in each one of them. More
next time with Ray Bradbury.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane and David Carson. Ray Bradbury, who most readers recognize as
a science fiction author, has been writing poetry for most of his life. And he
publishes it regularly, too, in all sorts of magazines. Every so often the poems
are collected together in a single volume. There have been four of these
collections so far. When Elephants Last in the Door Yard Bloomed, Where Robot
Mice and Robot Men Run Round in Robot Towns, The Haunted Computer and the
Android Pope, and most recently, The Complete Poems of Ray Bradbury. Not all of
Bradbury's verse is science fiction or fantasy, but a bunch of it is. One of our
favorites, for instance, is called The Haunted Computer and the Android Pope.
Sometimes his poetry has a bite to it or a message. Abandoned in Place is one of
these. It's a lament for the neglected American space program. We ask Bradbury,
when he sits down to write, what determines what will come out? A story? A
novel? A play? An opera? Whatever. I haven't the faintest idea. It just knocks
me over. Sometimes in the middle of writing a poem, I'll say, oh my, this is too
big for a poem. I may very well finish the poem, but then I sit down and turn it
into a short story immediately. Or on a rare occasion, it turns into a stage
play or a novel. But that doesn't happen as often. Most of the time, I work in
the short form. But quite often, you take the simplest idea and it evolves from
the poetry form into, well, I was, for instance, I was driving around in England
a few years ago and a chauffeur of our car was talking about driving and the
Irish and funerals, the Irish wakes and what have you. And he told of this one
wake of some friends of his in a small town in Ireland where an English lord
lived nearby. And when he died, he went against the old saying, you can't take
it with you. And he took with him all of his wine and he had all the thousands
of bottles of wine in his cellar poured into his grave. Well, it was such a
great idea that I wrote it as a short story last week and sent it off and it'll
probably be in Playboy sometime in the next two or four, five months. We asked
Bradbury if he could name one or two of his favorite poems from his own work. At
the time I write them, of course, I think each one is good or I wouldn't have
put it in the book. I try not to ever publish a poem or a short story that I've
gotten tired of. With his incredibly busy schedule, will he continue to write
poetry? Oh, yes, yes, yes.
Those science fiction fans who might have been surprised that Bradbury writes
poetry, we have another surprise ahead of them. When we asked Bradbury if there
was a form of writing he hadn't tried yet, his answer contained a mild shocker.
I can't think of anything offhand. Now that I'm working on this libretto for
this opera, that sort of rounds out the list. I'm working on a detective murder
mystery novel now, which I've never done before. So it's a new, it's a change
for me in the novel form. I've been a great lover and admirer of Dashiell
Hammett and Raymond Chandler for the last 40 years or so. And I always wanted to
do something in that field. But I was afraid to do it because I wasn't well
enough educated, even though I'd read hundreds of novels in the field when I was
younger. It didn't seem to get into my bloodstream. But now I think I'm old
enough and I hope I've learned my lessons. And when the novel comes out, people
will agree that it's at least an agreeable competitor in the field. Could he
tell us when the novel might be published? No, I would say about a year from
now. It's right up close to being finished. I've been working on it seven or
eight years. But you never know. I might finish it all in one week in the next
week or two. And again, I may drag on for another six months. I'm not in charge.
I don't make the decisions. We'll have more next time with Ray Bradbury.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College
in Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is David Carson. And Daryl Lane. Ray Bradbury has always been impossible to
categorize. He writes science fiction and fantasy, and much of his reputation is
based on books like The Martian Chronicles and Fahrenheit 451. But he's also
written mainstream material like Dandelion Wine. He's also been successful with
poetry, drama, movie scripts, and is now working on a grand opera. We asked
Bradbury if it ever bothers him to be labeled as a science fiction writer. Well,
it depends on how it's used. Some people use it with prejudice. There are still
some librarians in the country. There are still some critics. There are still
some teachers who think that science fiction isn't worth bothering with. And of
course, that drives me wild. So their opinion actually irritates me because, to
me, it's the central fiction of our time. We are a science-oriented,
technologically-oriented people. And there's nothing else to write about except
human beings in some sort of relationship with their ideas, with their
machineries, with their technologies. All the major problems of our time right
now are technological, scientific, moral problems. What do you do with the
automobile? What do you do with nuclear power? What do you do with cloning? What
do you do with DNA experimentation? All these problems that arise as soon as you
invent something new. So all of our major problems right now, you can't name one
that's not connected to a machine somewhere down the line. What about those hard
-headed, practical sort of people who have no use for imaginative literature and
call it useless? Well, there's always been bad talk among intellectuals who
don't stop and think what they're saying. It's a very dumb remark. I mean, if
you don't have an imagination, you can't survive. If you don't have some sort of
creative instinct in you, how do you think people survive Buchenwald? Those who
survive, survive with their imagination. A lot of them were able to imagine. At
times, for a little while, they were somewhere else. If you're in a jail and
people are dying all around you, you damn well better have the power of
imagination so that you can imagine a future where this will stop or you can
imagine a present where you're not there for a little while. To live inside your
head and to forget the horror that surrounds you. That's a huge thing to be able
to do. A lot of people did it. It's remarkable. It's miraculous. But that's what
a human being is. A miraculous animal in the history of the world who's able to
survive.
We asked Bradbury what part of his work he'd like to be remembered for one or
two hundred years from now. Oh, I hope that something wicked this way comes is
still around. I think it's a universal book. At least I hope it is. It deals
with children and growing up and growing old and getting sick and dying. All the
things that happened to all the people in the history of the world. Well, I hope
the book won't age, that it would belong to no special time, but to all times.
It's my favorite, and I love it because I suppose I'm locked into it with my
father. My father is the hero of the book, and I didn't know that at the time I
wrote it. One night I got up and wandered around the house and picked up the
book and started to reread it and suddenly cried out and tears burst from my
eyes, and I realized that I'd written my father into the book as Mr. Holloway,
who is the hero of the entire structure of the book. So that's one of the
reasons why I love it, and I hope it'll have a little life after I'm gone.
Something Wicked This Way Comes is indeed a classic in the fantasy horror genre.
And it will be out as a major Hollywood motion picture soon. It's being done by
Walt Disney, and Bradbury wrote the script for the screen version. It should be
a great one. We'll conclude our conversation with Ray Bradbury on our next show.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas.
coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane and David Carson. Anyone familiar with the stories of Ray
Bradbury will know that he occasionally writes something in praise of George
Bernard Shaw. We asked him why he thought so much of Shaw. My God, he is, of all
the writers of our time, just about, at least on the, when you think of Irish
-English literature for the theater, he is the idea writer of all idea writers.
He and G.K. Chesterton, and a few others, but he sort of outraces and outpaces
everyone. You name a subject, and he just pretty well wrote about it 70 years
ago, 100 years ago, 90 years ago. He was interested in theology. He was
interested in machinery. He was interested in the future. He was interested in
biology. He had a far-ranging curiosity about mankind and the future of mankind.
So he wrote science fiction, as well as doing theological studies and great
characters from history like St. John.
What kinds of books would Bradbury choose to educate children today? Oh, I would
recommend George Bernard Shaw as soon as someone was old enough. I don't think
you can give Shaw to children, nor can you give him to kids in high school. But
as soon as people get into college, then I would bring Shaw out and give them a
complete education in ideas and how to think. And at the lower level, I imagine
I would start them out with Jules Verne and H.G. Wells, the science fiction
writers, because kids really are interested in ideas. And it's very playful.
It's wonderful to have an interest in such things. And that's the reason why
science fiction during the last few years has been so popular in the high
schools and the junior high schools. The kids recognize that these fictions deal
with very real problems that must be solved. And you have the fun of playing
with those toys inside your head.
Of course, Bradbury is still going full speed writing his own fiction of all
sorts. When we asked him what he was working on at the present time, he
mentioned the usual things, such as poetry, short stories, a novel, even
something unusual, a grand opera. But he's also shaping up something else that
should be fascinating to all readers. I've written a sort of autobiographical
charting of where I get my ideas and how I wrote all of my novels. I want to do
a sort of book similar to, but certainly not equal to, The Summing Up by
Somerset Maugham. And I think ideas are fascinating. Where do you get a story
idea and what do you do with it? And after all, I've written 400 or 500 stories.
So that would make, I think, an interesting book and not a boring one. I don't
like to read autobiographies where they take a thousand pages to go through
their childhood. I'm really not interested in the facts of people's lives. It's
a rare person who can write about their childhood or their sexuality and be
interesting and amusing. I don't care what kind of sex life anyone has had. I
don't want to know a thing about George Bernard Shaw or Somerset Maugham or
Shakespeare and these others. I have no interest in their sex life. I have only
a huge and pervading interest in their ideas, where they got them and what they
did with them. So that's the kind of book I'm doing. You won't find any gossip
in it. You won't find out anything horrendous about me or anyone else. It's just
how I stumble over things, pick myself up, dust myself off, and write a poem.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next. This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane. And Bill Vernon. Jessica Amanda Salmonson has been a
professional writer and editor of fantasy for only a few years, but she's made
her influence felt. In 1980, her first professional work, Amazons!, an anthology
she edited for DAW Books, won an award as the Best Fantasy Anthology of the
Year. And she's written three novels of heroic fantasy. Two of them involve a
woman samurai warrior named Tomoe Gozen. The first one, entitled Tomoe Gozen,
was published in 1981. The second, called The Golden Naginata, came out in 1982.
She also edited another fantasy anthology in 1982 called Amazons II, and
she'll have much more work coming out in the future. We spoke with Salmonson
recently about her involvement in the field of fantasy. We wondered if she grew
up reading science fiction pulp magazines, as many contemporary authors have. I
never liked the pulps particularly. I liked fairy tales when I was quite little,
but somehow I never thought of them as being suitable for me as a teenage reader
or as an adult reader. It took me a long time to connect and see that fantasy
was really suited for adults as well. I think a lot of people feel that way
about fantasy. They start reading science fiction perhaps partly because it
seems more adult than fantasy. I don't think that's at all true. Fantasy has
stronger symbolic meaning, whereas science fiction in a lot of ways is a lot
more simplistic. It's world views, feeling around for symbols that don't have an
ancient heritage or an ancient long existence in our subconscious and our
culture. We ask her why fantasy, particularly heroic fantasy, is so popular
these days. Why do people read it? I don't think you can generalize why people
like it. I think for some people it has very deep symbolic meaning in their
personal daily lives. Obviously nobody is really a big tough swords master who
can win their way through any problem. But I think that there is a relationship
between these fantasies and the real world that's not just escapist in that our
daily lives are pretty dangerous and we somehow manage to survive and go to the
end of our lives anyway. So there is a, it's kind of, I suppose, burlesque and
extreme. But the heroic fantasy world is very much like our own world and the
dangers we manage to survive day after day. Also the amount of death and the
blood and gore that exists in these kinds of novels is to many people
exploitative and grotesque. It's just they don't like it. They don't know why so
many other people do like it. And they think very badly of that form of
literature because it is so bloody. But to me, I think there is definitely that
exploit to that aspect of it. But I think it's also, again, symbolic of, say,
the transience of our own life. At any moment you could get smashed to
smithereens in a car crash. Life can just end suddenly. And even if you live a
long life, 80 years or 60 years, it's just not a long time. And the sudden death
and the danger that these worlds represent is very much like our own world.
They're very honest in a way. Finally, we inquired about the relation of fantasy
and fairy tales. In most cases, I think one is the direct outgrowth of the
other. But heroic fantasy probably has its most obvious roots in ancient epics
from Gilgamesh or Jason and the Argonauts. Anything like that is probably its
most obvious roots. But in the nature of storytelling in prose form, it's more
related to the fairy tales.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas.